.. title: Quick Note about Box-Sizing/Box-Shadow
.. date: 2016-07-27
.. category: Front End
.. tags: CSS3
.. slug: quick-note-about-box-box-shadow
.. authors: Pengyin Shan
.. description: This is a quick reference note about box-sizing/box-shadow in CSS3



#`box-sizing`

`box-sizing` is used to tell the browser what the sizing properties (`width` and `height`) should include.

It has following properties:

- `content-box`: Default. `border`, `padding` and `margin` is **not** included in counting `width`/`height` (include `min-/max-`) properties.

- `border-box`: the `width`/`height` properties **includes** content, `padding` and `border`, but **not include** `margin`

- `initial`/`inherit`: set to default value/inherit from its parent

#`box-shadow`

The website <a href="http://www.cssmatic.com/box-shadow">cssmatic</a> contains a very good box-shadow generator to generate/understand `box-shadow` better.


`box-shadow` has six parameters with optional ones. Its syntax is:

    :::css
    /*Option 1*/
    box-shadow: none;

    /*Option 2*/
    box-shadow: (inset) h-shadow v-shadow blur spread color

    /*Option 3*/
    box-shadow: initial/inherit

Here is a list of properties in Option 2:

- `inset`: *Optional*. Shadow is towards inside of box. If ommited, shadows is expand towards out.

- `h-shadow`: *Required*. The position of *horizonal* shadow. Negative values means the whold shadow box is moving towards left. Positive values means the box moving towards right.

- `v-shadow`: *Required*. the position of *vertical* shadow. Negative values means the whole shadow box is moving towards top. Positive values means the box moving towards down.

- `blur`: *Optional*. represents how much 'transition' effect this shadow have (i.e. the transition process from box color to container color). `0` means shadow box is all real color/no transition.

- `spread`: *Optional*. from **center** of shadow, how large the shadow can be (can be understand as shadow area). `0` meas same size as box item. Negative value means smaller than box item area.

- `color`: *Optional*. Any color code. `rgba` is a good option to includes opacity for shadow. Such as `rgba(0,0,0,0.75);`.